                                                                 battery charge using a voltage divider

1.voltage divider circuit using resistors of 100 k-ohm and 10 k-ohm.

2.5v or 3.3v  microcontroller

the battery we use for our solar-electric car is 48 volts li-ion battery.
It is useful for the drivers to have a knowledge of the charge remaining 
in the battery. This is done by reading the voltage through the input of
 micro-controller. since the micro-controllers can not work on a voltage
 as high as 48 volts, so we have converted 48 volts to 4.8 volts
 equivalent using a voltage divider consisting networks of resistors 
of suitable values.we connect 100-kilo ohm and 10-kilo ohm resistor in 
series, so the voltage across 10-kilo ohm resistor is 4.8 volt. This 

voltage is supplied to the analog input of the microcontroller. Arduino 
now will map this value in the range of
 0 to 1024.Now,we calculate the input voltage 
using 4.8/1024 x(given data).Now,terminal voltage is calculated by 
analog voltage= terminal voltage/110x 10^3x10.
The resistor used is of high range so that there is not much loss of power. 
Now, we will be calculating the state of charge using the graph between voltage
 and state of charge for 48 volts li-ion battery. since the graph between
 voltage and state of charge(soc) is linear over a long range of 
graph, we can easily find out the state of charge if the terminal 
voltage is known. since we know the terminal voltage of the battery 
and the graph between voltage
and state of charge is as shown in fig. The slope of the graph is 
about 0.025 .so, we can calculate the
state of charge using the voltage/state of charge = 0.025. Now, the 
data we calculated for the state of charge is displayed on a 16 x 2 size 
of LCD connected to the micro-controller.
we are also be using blynk's cloud platform to connect to node MCU through
 the internet.
Using the API of blynk we will update it with the percentage of charge left within it.
we will be able to access it through blynk app on android phone or through the website.


